But those who take, whose work consists solely of arrests, for whom the horror is boringly repetitive, 
have a much broader understanding of how arrests operate. They operate according to a large body 
of theory, and innocence must not lead one to ignore this. The science of arrest is an important 
segment of the course on general penology and has been propped up with a substantial body of social 
theory. Arrests are classified according to various criteria: nighttime and daytime; at home, at work, 
during a journey; first-time arrests and repeats; individual and group arrests. Arrests are 
distinguished by the degree of surprise required, the amount of resistance expected (even though in 
tens of millions of cases no resistance was expected and in fact there was none). Arrests are also 
differentiated by the thoroughness of the required search;by instructions either to make out or not to 
make out an inventory of confiscated property or seal a room or apartment; to arrest the wife after 
the husband and send the children to an orphanage, or to send the rest of the family into exile, or to 
send the old folks to a labor camp too. 

[And there is a separate Science of Searches too. I have had the chance to read a pamphlet on this 
subject for correspondence-school law students in Alma-Ata. Its author praises highly those police 
officials who in the course of their searches went so far as to turn over two tons of manure, eight 
cubic yards of firewood, or two loads of hay; cleaned the snow from an entire collective-farm 
vegetable plot, dismantled brick ovens, dug up cesspools, checked out toilet bowls, looked into 
doghouses, chicken coops, birdhouses, tore apart mattresses, ripped adhesive tape off people's bodies 
and even tore out metal teeth in the search for microfilm. Students were advised to begin and to end 
with a body search (during the course of the search the arrested person might have grabbed up 
something that had already been examined). They were also advised to return to the site of a search 
at a different time of day and carry out the search all over again.] 

No, no: arrests vary widely in form. In 1926 Irma Mendel, a Hungarian, obtained through the 
Comintern two front-row tickets to the Bolshoi Theatre. Interrogator Klegel was courting her at the 



time and she invited him to go with her. They sat through the show very affectionately, and when it 
was over he took her — straight to the Lubyanka. And if on a flowering June day in 1927 on 
Kuznetsky Most, the plump-cheeked, redheaded beauty Anna Skripnikova, who had just bought 
some navy-blue material for a dress, climbed into a hansom cab with a young man-about-town, you 
can be sure it wasn't a lovers' tryst at all, as the cabman understood very well and showed by his 
frown (he knew the Organs don't pay). It was an arrest. In just a moment they would turn on the 
Lubyanka and enter the black maw of the gates. And if, some twenty-two springs later. Navy 
Captain Second Rank Boris Burkovsky, wearing a white tunic and a trace of expensive eau de 
cologne, was buying a cake for a young lady, do not take an oath that the cake would ever reach the 
young lady and not be sliced up instead by the knives of the men searching the captain and then 
delivered to him in his first cell. No, one certainly cannot say that daylight arrest, arrest during a 
journey, or arrest in the middle of a crowd has ever been neglected in our country. However, it has 
always been clean-cut — and, most surprising of all, the victims, in cooperation with the Security 
men, have conducted themselves in the noblest conceivable manner, so as to spare the living from 
witnessing the death of the condemned. 

Not everyone can be arrested at home, with a preliminary knock at the door (and if there is a knock, 
then it has to be the house manager or else the postman). And not everyone can be arrested at work 
either. If the person to be arrested is vicious, then it's better to seize him outside his ordinary 
milieu — away from his family and colleagues, from those who share his views, from any hiding 
places. It is essential that he have no chance to destroy, hide, or pass on anything to anyone. VIP's in 
the military or the Party were sometimes first given new assignments, ensconced in a private railway 
car, and then arrested en route. Some obscure, ordinary mortal, scared to death by epidemic arrests 
all around him and already depressed for a week by sinister glances from his chief, is suddenly 
summoned to the local Party committee, where he is beamingly presented with a vacation ticket to a 
Sochi sanatorium. The rabbit is overwhelmed and immediately concludes that his fears were 
groundless. After expressing his gratitude, he hurries home, triumphant, to pack his suitcase. It is 
only two hours till train time, and he scolds his wife for being too slow. He arrives at the station with 
time to spare. And there in the waiting room or at the bar he is hailed by an extraordinarily pleasant 
young man: "Don't you remember me, Pyotr Ivanich?" Pyotr Ivanich has difficulty remembering: 
"Well, not exactly, you see, although ..." The young man, however, is overflowing with friendly 
concern: "Come now, how can that be? I'll have to remind you. ..." And he bows respectfully to 
Pyotr Ivanich's wife: "You must forgive us. I'll keep him only one minute." The wife accedes, and 
trustingly the husband lets himself be led away by the arm — forever or for ten years! 