In 1951, an agreement between the People's Republic of China and representatives of the Dalai Lama was put into effect. Socialist reforms such as redistribution of land were delayed in Tibet proper. However, eastern Kham and Amdo (western Sichuan and Qinghai provinces in the Chinese administrative hierarchy) were outside the administration of the Tibetan government in Lhasa, and were thus treated more like other Chinese provinces, with land redistribution implemented in full. The Khampas and nomads of Amdo traditionally owned their own land.[13] Armed resistance broke out in Amdo and eastern Kham in June 1956.
Prior to the PLA invasion, relations between Lhasa and the Khampa chieftains had deteriorated, although the Khampa remained spiritually loyal to the Dalai Lama throughout. Because of these strained relations, the Khampa had actually assisted the Chinese in their initial invasion, before becoming the guerrilla resistance they are now known for.[14] Pandatsang Rapga, a pro Kuomintang and pro Republic of China revolutionary Khampa leader, offered the governor of Chamdo, Ngabo Ngawang Jigme, some Khampa fighters in exchange for the Tibetan government recognizing the independence of Kham. 
Ngabo refused the offer. After the defeat of the Tibetan Army in Chamdo, Rapga started mediating in 
negotiations between the PLA and Tibetan rebels.[citation needed]
Rapga and Topgay engaged in negotiations with the Chinese during their assault on Chamdo. Khampas either 
defected to the Chinese PLA forces or did not fight at all. The PLA succeeded in the task.[15]
By 1957, Kham was in chaos. Resistance fighters' attacks and People's Liberation Army reprisals against Khampa 
resistance fighters such as the Chushi Gangdruk became increasingly brutal.[16] Kham's monastic networks came to be 
used by guerilla forces to relay messages and hide rebels.[17] Punitive strikes were carried out by the Chinese government against Tibetan villages and monasteries. Tibetan exiles assert that threats to bomb the Potala Palace and the Dalai Lama 
were made by Chinese military commanders in an attempt to intimidate the guerrilla forces into submission.[18]
An Indian Army statement acknowledged the death of an officer and two soldiers, with subsequent reports attributed to officials confirming 17 other soldiers succumbed to injuries¡ªreports that Foreign Policy has not independently verified. Both sides confirm that Chinese soldiers were also killed, but the number is unknown. (China is traditionally reluctant to report casualty figures, and it erases some clashes from official history.) Critically, neither side is reported so far to have fired actual weapons, since both Chinese and Indian patrols in the area routinely go unarmed in order to avoid possible escalation; the deaths may have resulted from fistfights and possibly the use of rocks and iron rods. It¡¯s also possible, given the extreme heights involved¡ªthe fighting took place in Ladakh, literally ¡°the land of high passes¡±¡ªthat some of those killed died due to falls.
What is the origin of the conflict?
Despite their early friendship in the 1950s, relations between India and China rapidly degenerated over the unresolved state of their Himalayan border. The border lines, largely set by British surveyors, are unclear and heavily disputed¡ªas was the status of Himalayan kingdoms such as Tibet, Sikkim, Bhutan, and Nepal. That led to a short war in 1962, won by China. China also backs Pakistan in its own disputes with India, and China¡¯s Belt and Road Initiative has stirred Indian fears, especially the so-called China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, a collection of large infrastructure projects.
The current border is formally accepted by neither side but simply referred to as the Line of Actual Control. In 2017, an attempt by Chinese engineers to build a new road through disputed territory on the Bhutan-India-China border led to a 73-day standoff on the Doklam Plateau, including fistfights between Chinese and Indian soldiers. Following Doklam, both countries built new military infrastructure along the border. India, for example, constructed roads and bridges to improve its connectivity to the Line of Actual Control, dramatically improving its ability to bring in emergency reinforcements in the event of a skirmish. In early May this year, a huge fistfight along the border led to both sides boosting local units, and there have been numerous light skirmishes¡ªwith no deaths¡ªsince then. Both sides have accused the other of deliberately crossing the border on numerous occasions. Until Monday¡¯s battle, however, diplomacy seemed to be slowly deescalating the crisis: The two sides had opened high-level diplomatic communications and appeared ready to find convenient off-ramps for each side to maintain face. And both countries¡¯ foreign ministers were scheduled for a virtual meeting next week.
[For more analysis like this direct to your inbox, sign up for FP¡¯s weekly newsletters South Asia Brief and China Brief.]
Both countries also have a highly jingoistic media¡ªstate-run in China¡¯s case, and mostly private in India¡¯s¡ªthat can escalate conflicts and drum up a public mood for a fight. Press jingoism, however, can also open strange opportunities for de-escalation: After an aerial dogfight between India and Pakistan in 2019, media on both sides claimed victory of sorts for their respective countries, allowing their leaders to move on.
Compounding the problems is the physically shifting nature of the border, which represents the world¡¯s longest unmarked boundary line; snowfalls, rockslides, and melting can make it literally impossible to say just where the line is, especially as climate change wreaks havoc in the mountains. It¡¯s quite possible for two patrols to both be convinced they¡¯re on their country¡¯s side of the border.
Has there been similar violence in the past?
There have been no deaths¡ªor shots fired¡ªalong the border since an Indian patrol was ambushed by a Chinese one in 1975.There have been no deaths¡ªor shots fired¡ªalong the border since an Indian patrol was ambushed by a Chinese one in 1975. But China saw significant clashes with both India and the Soviet Union during the late 1960s, at the height of the Cultural Revolution. In India¡¯s case, that culminated in a brief but bloody clash on the Sikkim-Tibet border, with around hundreds of dead and injured on each side. On the Soviet border, fighting along the Ussuri River saw similar numbers of dead, but tensions escalated far higher than with India, leading to fears of a full-blown war and a possible nuclear exchange that were only alleviated by the highest-level diplomacy. In part, those clashes were driven by political needs on the Chinese side; officers and soldiers alike felt the need to demonstrate their Maoist enthusiasm, leading to such actions as swimming across the river waving Mao Zedong¡¯s Little Red Book.
READ MORE
A Chinese soldier gestures as he stands near an Indian soldier on the Chinese side of the ancient Nathu La border crossing between India and China on July 10, 2008.
Why India and China Are Sparring
The two nuclear powers have long had their differences. But the pandemic has led to some frayed nerves¡ªand revealed longer-term ambitions.
SOUTH ASIA BRIEF | RAVI AGRAWAL
What could happen next?
India has announced that ¡°both sides¡± are trying to de-escalate the situation, but it has accused China of deliberately violating the border and reneging on agreements made in recent talks between the two sides. China¡¯s response was more demanding, accusing India of ¡°deliberately initiating physical attacks¡± in a territory¡ªthe Galwan Valley in Ladakh that is claimed by both sides¡ªthat has ¡°always been ours.¡± Army officers are meeting to try to resolve the situation.
While the 2017 Doklam crisis was successfully defused¡ªand was followed by a summit between Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Wuhan, China¡ªrecent events could easily spiral out of control. If there are indeed a high number of deaths from Monday¡¯s skirmish, pressure to react and exact revenge may build. The coronavirus has produced heightened political uncertainty in China, leading to a newly aggressive form of ¡°Wolf Warrior¡± diplomacy¡ªnamed after a Rambo-esque film that was a blockbuster in China but a flop elsewhere. Chinese officials are under considerable pressure to be performatively nationalist; moderation and restraint are becoming increasingly dangerous for careers.
On the Indian side, there is increasing nervousness about how Beijing has encircled the subcontinent. China counts Pakistan as a key ally; it has growing stakes in Sri Lanka and Nepal, two countries that have drifted away from India in recent years; and it has made huge infrastructure investments in Bangladesh. Meanwhile, much has changed since the last time India and China had deadly clashes in the 1960s and ¡¯70s, when the two countries had similarly sized economies; today, China¡¯s GDP is five times that of India, and it spends four times as much on defense.
There will likely be a business impact following the latest clash. Indians, for example, have recently mobilized to boycott Chinese goods, as evidenced by a recent app ¡°Remove China Apps¡± that briefly topped downloads on India¡¯s Google Play Store before the Silicon Valley giant stepped in to ban the app.
Heightened tensions also put Indians in China at risk. Although numbers are somewhat reduced due to the coronavirus crisis, there is a substantial business and student community in the country. During the Doklam crisis, the Beijing police lightly monitored and made home visits to Indians in the city.
An escalated crisis doesn¡¯t necessarily mean a full-blown war.An escalated crisis doesn¡¯t necessarily mean a full-blown war. It could mean months of skirmishes and angry exchanges along the border, likely with more accidental deaths. But any one of those could explode into a real exchange of fire between the two militaries. The conditions in the Himalayas themselves severely limit military action; it takes up to two weeks for troops to acclimate to the altitude, logistics and provisioning are extremely limited, and air power is severely restrained. (One worrying possibility for more deaths is helicopter crashes, such as the one that killed a Nepalese minister last year.)
In the event of a serious military conflict, most analysts believe the Chinese military would have the advantage. But unlike China, which hasn¡¯t fought a war since its 1979 invasion of Vietnam, India sees regular fighting with Pakistan and has an arguably more experienced military force.
Is there a permanent solution?
China resolved its border squabbles with Russia and other Soviet successor states in the 1990s and 2000s through a serious diplomatic push on both sides and mass exchanges of territory, and they¡¯ve been essentially a nonissue since then. But although the area involved was much larger, the Himalayan territorial disputes are much more sensitive and harder to resolve.
For one thing, control of the heights along the borders gives a military advantage in future conflicts. Resource issues, especially water, are critical: 1.4 billion people depend on water drawn from Himalayan-fed rivers. And unlike the largely bilateral conflicts along the northern border, multiple parties are involved: Nepal, Bhutan, China, Pakistan, and, of course, India. Add on top of that China¡¯s increasing power and nationalism, matched by jingoism on the Indian side, and the prospects of a long-term solution look small.
James Palmer is a deputy editor at Foreign Policy. Twitter: @BeijingPalmer
Ravi Agrawal is the managing editor of Foreign Policy. Twitter: @RaviReports
VIEW
COMMENTS
TAGS: CHINA, INDIA
TRENDING NOW SPONSORED LINKS BY TABOOLA
Cable TV is Dying. Here¡¯s What We Think Is Next (and It¡¯s Not Netflix!)
The Motely Fool
After C¨¦line Dion's Major Weight Loss, She Confirms What We Suspected All Along
Atlantic Mirror
New Senior Living Near Los Angeles Are A Dream Come True For Seniors!
Senior Living
[Pics] Mom has no idea why vacation photo went viral, then she sees the background
Top5
BY TABOOLA
MORE FROM FOREIGN POLICY
Why Is China Downplaying Its Border Clash With India?
Slaughter in the East China Sea
China Is Pushing India Closer to the United States
Why We Should Worry About China and India¡¯s Border Skirmishes
BY TABOOLA
latest
The Czech Republic Is Caught in a Nuclear Tug of War